---
layout: post
title: Week2
---
This week Dr. Ramaraj guided me on downloading iTerm, which is the terminal we will be using for this project to analyze the data. He walked me through on how to go through the terminal and briefly explained the data sequences. 

He also went over FASTA and FASTQ data types. I was instructed to read up on those for the week. Here is what I gathered about FASTA and FASTQ. 

Structure:
FASTA: A FASTA file consists of two main parts: a header line starting with a ">" character, which contains a unique identifier for the sequence, and the sequence data itself.
FASTQ: A FASTQ file also contains a header line starting with a "@" character, followed by the sequence data, a "+", and another line known as the quality scores.

Sequence Data:
FASTA: The sequence data in a FASTA file consists of the actual nucleotide or protein sequence represented by letters (e.g., A, T, G, C for DNA). It does not contain information about the quality of the sequence data.
FASTQ: The sequence data in a FASTQ file is represented by a string of letters that correspond to the nucleotides or amino acids. Each letter represents a base or residue in the sequence.

Quality Scores:
FASTA: FASTA files do not include quality scores. They provide only the sequence data without any information about the reliability or accuracy of the base calls.
FASTQ: FASTQ files include an additional line that represents the quality scores corresponding to each base in the sequence. These quality scores provide information about the confidence level or probability of accuracy for each base call.

Quality Encoding:
FASTA: Since FASTA files do not contain quality scores, they do not require any specific quality encoding.
FASTQ: FASTQ files use different encoding schemes to represent quality scores. The most commonly used encoding is the ASCII encoding, where each quality score is represented by a character with an ASCII value.

Similarities:
Both FASTA and FASTQ formats are widely used for storing biological sequence data. They can be used to represent nucleotide sequences (DNA or RNA) as well as protein sequences. Both formats are plain-text files and can be easily viewed and manipulated using standard text editors. 

Please watch this for reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xYEre9DtIqA

I was instructed to look into whole genome shotgun metagenomics. Whole genome shotgun (WGS) metagenomics is a sequencing approach used to study the genetic content of microbial communities in various environments, such as soil (just like the basis of the research), water, and the human gut. Unlike traditional targeted sequencing methods that focus on specific genes or regions, WGS metagenomics aims to capture and analyze the entire genetic information present in a sample. It provides a comprehensive view of the genetic potential and functional diversity of microbial communities without prior knowledge of the organisms present. It enables researchers to explore the complex interactions and dynamics of microbial ecosystems.

Please watch this for reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RcYXTpNS_XU&t=164s

We will be using MetaPhlan to read the data. It is specifically designed for analyzing shotgun metagenomic data, where DNA fragments from all organisms present in a sample are sequenced without targeting specific genes. The main purpose of MetaPhlAn is to provide insights into the composition and abundance of different microbial taxa in a given metagenomic sample. It achieves this by comparing the metagenomic sequencing reads against a comprehensive database of microbial genomes, known as the clade-specific marker genes.







