---
layout: post
title: Week 8 
---
I engaged in a productive meeting with Dr. Ramaraj where we analyzed the samples to ensure they ran in MetaPhlan. It came to our attention that sample HN encountered an operational anomaly, prompting me to resubmit.

This week, I undertook the task of sourcing an appropriate software capable of assimilating the data sample outcomes and generating an illustrative bar chart of the diverse bacterial components within the soil composition. Unfortunately, I did not come across a pre-existing application that aligned with our specific needs. As a result, I took the initiative to develop a new Python program. This program not only processes the sample text files but also yields a bar chart visual representation.

Subsequently, I dedicated considerable effort throughout the week to refining the code, ultimately achieving a desired outcome. I successfully generated a comprehensive bar chart encapsulating data derived from all ten samples, focusing primarily on the cumulative bacteria and archaea proportions.

Taking advice from Dr. Ramaraj, I extended the program's functionality to encompass the identification and depiction of individual bacterial and archaeal classifications alongside their corresponding proportional percentages. This enhancement was successfully applied to a one soil sample. I intend to present it in our scheduled meeting.

I am waiting for Dr. Ramaraj's approval of the bar chart. Once approved, I will apply the same program to the remaining nine samples.
